Eng omar ahmed ios gesturesdoc (#2182)
Codecademy/docs: content/swiftui/concepts/gestures/gestures.md

---
Title: 'Gestures' 

> Description: 'Defines interactions from taps, clicks, and swipes to fine-grained gestures.' 

Reviewer: Terms should starts with a verb, but it's not necessary. I did notice similarities between this and Apple Docs so if we can have this match the introduction that starts with "Gestures are..." that would be 👍

Subjects: 
  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags:
  - 'SwiftUI ViewModifiers'
  - 'SwiftUI'
  - 'iOS'
CatalogContent: 
  - 'learn-iOS-course'
  - 'path/iOS-path'
---

> `Views` can respond to taps, drags, pinches and other gestures just by adding **Gesture** modifiers to the view.

Reviewer: Can you reword this to start with "**Gestures** are..."

## Tap Gestures

This is the most basic type of Gesture.

> The `.onTapGesture()` modifier can be called on the view desired to track the gesture on.

Reviewer: can you either move this to the same line or add a new line in between?

```Swift
struct Tap: View {
    var body: some View {
        Text("Hello, World!")
            .onTapGesture {
                print("View Tapped") 
            }
    }
}
```

The output looks like:

![This is a gif that shows the effect of using TapGesture in Xcode simulation](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/swiftui-tapgesture-example.gif)

> Every time the text view "Hello, World" is tapped, it prints "View Tapped" in the console.
> The action can also be implemented after certain amount of tap gestures. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every time the text view "Hello, World" is tapped, it prints "View Tapped" in the console.

The action can also be implemented after certain amount of tap gestures. For example:
```

```Swift
struct Tap: View {
    var body: some View {
        Text("Hello, World!")
            .onTapGesture(count: 3) {
                print("View Tapped") 
            }

>         

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    }
}
```

> In this example it prints "View Tapped" after taping the text view three times.

Reviewer: add new line between these lines

> > **Note:** When a button is needed, use a Button instance rather than a tap gesture. Any view can be used as the button’s label, and the button type automatically provides many of the standard behaviors that users expect from a button, like accessibility labels and hints. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** When a button is needed, a `Button` instance should be used rather than a tap gesture. Any view can be used as the button’s label, and the button type automatically provides many of the standard behaviors that users expect, like accessibility labels and hints.
```

## Long Press Gestures

> `onLongPressGesture()` it's used for handling long presses gesture. `onLongPressGesture()` have an extra parameter called `minimumDuration:` (takes Double as input), it's used to specify after how much time the action will be executed. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`.onLongPressGesture()` is used for handling long press gestures. `.onLongPressGesture()` has an extra parameter called `minimumDuration` which takes a double as the input value. It's used to specify how much time will elapse before an action is executed. For example:
```

```Swift
struct Tap: View {
    var body: some View {
        Text("Hello, World!")
            .onLongPressGesture(minimumDuration: 2) {
                print("View Tapped")
            }

>         

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    }
}
```

> The output looks like:
> 
> ![This is a gif that shows the effect of using LongPressGesture in Xcode simulation](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/swiftui-longgesture-example.gif)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A string will be printed in the console after pressing the text view for 2 seconds. On Xcode, this will display:

![This is a gif that shows the effect of using LongPressGesture in Xcode simulation](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/swiftui-longgesture-example.gif)
```

>  "Long pressed!" was be printed in the console after pressing the text view for 2 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Advanced Gestures

> For more advanced and customizable gestures use the `gesture()` modifier with one of the gesture structs like: `DragGesture()`, `LongPressGesture()`, `MagnificationGesture()`, `RotationGesture()`, and `TapGesture()`. These all have special modifiers, usually `onEnded()` and `onChanged() `, and they can be used to take action when the gestures are in-flight (for `onChanged()`) or completed (`for onEnded()`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `gesture()` modifier is used for more advanced and customizable gestures, with one of the gesture `struct`s like: `DragGesture()`, `LongPressGesture()`, `MagnificationGesture()`, `RotationGesture()`, and `TapGesture()`. These all have special modifiers, usually `.onEnded()` and `.onChanged() `, and they can be used to take action when the gestures are in-flight (for `.onChanged()`) or completed (for `.onEnded()`).
```

> As an example, a magnification gesture could be attached to a view so that pinching in and out scales the view up and down. This can be done by creating two `@State` properties to store the scale amount, using that inside a `scaleEffect()` modifier, then setting those values in the gesture, like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example below, a magnification gesture could be attached to a view so that pinching in and out scales the view up and down. This can be done by creating two `@State` properties to store the scale amount, using that inside a `.scaleEffect()` modifier, then setting those values in the gesture:

```

```Swift
struct ContentView: View {
    @State private var currentAmount = 0.0
    @State private var finalAmount = 1.0

    var body: some View {
        Text("Hello, World!")
            .scaleEffect(finalAmount + currentAmount)
            .gesture(
                MagnificationGesture()
                    .onChanged { amount in
                        currentAmount = amount - 1
                    }
                    .onEnded { amount in
                        finalAmount += currentAmount 
                        currentAmount = 0
                    }
            )
    }
}
```

> The output looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This will display on Xcode:
```

![This is a gif that shows the effect of using MagnificationGesture in Xcode simulation](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/swiftui-magnificationgesture-example.gif)

> There is a problem with the code above, because the text view didn't return to it's normal state, this can result in a bad user experience. So to fix this problem the `currentAmount` property will be assigned to zero in the `.onEnded()` modifier, so the text view will return to it's normal size after completing the gesture: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a problem with the code above, because the text view didn't return to its normal state, which can result in a bad user experience. To fix this problem, the `currentAmount` property will be assigned to zero in the `.onEnded()` modifier, so the text view will return to its normal size after completing the gesture: 

```

```Swift
struct Tap: View {
    @State private var currentAmount = 0.0

        var body: some View {
            Text("Hello, World!")
                .padding()
                .foregroundColor(.red)
                .scaleEffect(1 + currentAmount)
                .gesture(
                    MagnificationGesture()
                        .onChanged { amount in
                            currentAmount = amount - 1
                        }
                        .onEnded { amount in

>                             withAnimation(.spring()){

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                            withAnimation(.spring()) {

```

                                currentAmount = 0
                            }
                        }
                )
        }
}
```

> The output looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This will display on Xcode:
```

---
Title: 'Gestures' # Required; the file name should be the same as the title, but lowercase, with dashes instead of spaces, and all punctuation removed
Description: 'Defines interactions from taps, clicks, and swipes to fine-grained gestures.' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a noun (used in search engine results and content previews)
Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!
  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
  - 'SwiftUI ViewModifiers'
  - 'SwiftUI'
  - 'iOS'
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first
  - 'learn-iOS-course'

>   - 'path/iOS-path'

Reviewer: Remove all and any comments (these precede with a `#`)

---

> Views can respond to taps, drags, pinches and other gestures just by adding **Gesture** modifiers to your View.

Reviewer: Link out to the views topic entry here

Reviewer: Also, place the capitalized `View` in backticks as it represents the actual object, but you can keep the lowercased mentions of view/views as plain formatting.

No pronouns like we, you, I in Docs reference material

## Tap Gestures

This is the most basic type of Gesture.
The `.onTapGesture()` modifier can be called on the view desired to track the gesture on.

```Swift
struct Tap: View {
    var body: some View {
        Text("Hello, World!")
            .onTapGesture {
                print("View Tapped") 
            }

>         
>     }
> }
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion   
    }
}
```

---
Title: 'Gestures' # Required; the file name should be the same as the title, but lowercase, with dashes instead of spaces, and all punctuation removed
Description: 'Defines interactions from taps, clicks, and swipes to fine-grained gestures.' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a noun (used in search engine results and content previews)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Remove extra line break.

  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
  - 'SwiftUI ViewModifiers'
  - 'SwiftUI'
  - 'iOS'
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first
  - 'learn-iOS-course'
  - 'path/iOS-path'
---

Views can respond to taps, drags, pinches and other gestures just by adding **Gesture** modifiers to your View.

## Tap Gestures

This is the most basic type of Gesture.
The `.onTapGesture()` modifier can be called on the view desired to track the gesture on.

```Swift
struct Tap: View {
    var body: some View {
        Text("Hello, World!")
            .onTapGesture {
                print("View Tapped") 
            }
        
    }
}

```

The output looks like:

> ![Tap_Gesture_SwiftUI.gif](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/Tap_Gesture_SwiftUI.gif)

Reviewer 2: Change the file name to use dashes instead of underscores, and make it all lower case.

Also place some more descriptive text between the `[...]`.

The action can also be implemented after certain amount of tap gestures. For example:

```Swift
struct Tap: View {
    var body: some View {
        Text("Hello, World!")
            .onTapGesture(count: 3) {
                print("View Tapped") 
            }
        
    }
}
```
In this example it prints "View Tapped" after taping the text view three times.

> **Note:** When a button is needed, use a Button instance rather than a tap gesture. Any view can be used as the button’s label, and the button type automatically provides many of the standard behaviors that users expect from a button, like accessibility labels and hints. 

## Long Press Gestures

`onLongPressGesture()` it's used for handling long presses gesture. `onLongPressGesture()` have an extra parameter called `minimumDuration:` (takes Double as input), it's used to specify after how much time the action will be executed. For example:

```Swift
struct Tap: View {
    var body: some View {
        Text("Hello, World!")
            .onLongPressGesture(minimumDuration: 2) {
                print("View Tapped")
            }
        
    }
}
```
The output looks like:

> ![Tap_Gesture_SwiftUI.gif](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/Long_Gesuter_SwiftUI.gif)

Reviewer 2: Correct the spelling on the file name, and, use dashes instead of underscores, and make it all lower case.

Place some more descriptive text between the `[...]`.

 "Long pressed!" was be printed in the console after pressing the text view for 2 seconds.

## Advanced Gestures

For more advanced and customizable gestures use the `gesture()` modifier with one of the gesture structs like: `DragGesture()`, `LongPressGesture()`, `MagnificationGesture()`, `RotationGesture()`, and `TapGesture()`. These all have special modifiers, usually `onEnded()` and `onChanged() `, and they can be used to take action when the gestures are in-flight (for `onChanged()`) or completed (`for onEnded()`).

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Remove extra line break.

As an example, a magnification gesture could be attached to a view so that pinching in and out scales the view up and down. This can be done by creating two `@State` properties to store the scale amount, using that inside a `scaleEffect()` modifier, then setting those values in the gesture, like this:

```Swift
struct ContentView: View {
    @State private var currentAmount = 0.0
    @State private var finalAmount = 1.0

    var body: some View {
        Text("Hello, World!")
            .scaleEffect(finalAmount + currentAmount)
            .gesture(
                MagnificationGesture()
                    .onChanged { amount in
                        currentAmount = amount - 1
                    }
                    .onEnded { amount in
                        finalAmount += currentAmount 
                        currentAmount = 0
                    }
            )
    }
}
```
The output looks like:

> ![Tap_Gesture_SwiftUI.gif](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/Magnfication_Gesture_SwiftUI.gif)

Reviewer 2: Change the filename on the image, use dashes instead of underscores, and make it all lower case.

Also place some more descriptive text between the `[...]`.

There is a problem with the code above, because the text view didn't return to it's normal state, this can result in a bad user experience. So to fix this problem the `currentAmount` property will be assigned to zero in the `.onEnded()` modifier, so the text view will return to it's normal size after completing the gesture: 

```Swift
struct Tap: View {
    @State private var currentAmount = 0.0

        var body: some View {
            Text("Hello, World!")
                .padding()
                .foregroundColor(.red)
                .scaleEffect(1 + currentAmount)
                .gesture(
                    MagnificationGesture()
                        .onChanged { amount in
                            currentAmount = amount - 1
                        }
                        .onEnded { amount in
                            withAnimation(.spring()){
                                currentAmount = 0
                            }
                        }
                )
        }
}
```
The output looks like:

> ![Tap_Gesture_SwiftUI.gif](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/Magnfication_Gesture_SwiftUI_withAnimation.gif)

Reviewer 2: Change the filename on the image, use dashes instead of underscores, and make it all lower case.

Also place some more descriptive text between the `[...]`.

> the `withAnimation(.spring()){}` was added to gave the text view a spring animation while it return's to it's normal size, as it look in the gif above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the `withAnimation(.spring()){}` was added to gave the text view a spring animation while it returns to its normal size, as it looks in the gif above.
```

As an example, we could attach a magnification gesture to a view so that pinching in and out scales the view up and down. This can be done by creating two `@State` properties to store the scale amount, using that inside a `scaleEffect()` modifier, then setting those values in the gesture, like this:

```Swift
struct ContentView: View {
    @State private var currentAmount = 0.0
    @State private var finalAmount = 1.0

    var body: some View {
        Text("Hello, World!")
            .scaleEffect(finalAmount + currentAmount)
            .gesture(
                MagnificationGesture()
                    .onChanged { amount in
                        currentAmount = amount - 1
                    }
                    .onEnded { amount in
                        finalAmount += currentAmount 
                        currentAmount = 0
                    }
            )
    }
}
```

> // this a comment for the person who will review this doc, I don't know if i can put images or not. if I can please tell me to add some images for this file.

Author: I am facing a problem, I tried to add a gif to the markdown but I don't know if it's working or not. Can you help me solve this problem. Thank you in advance @SSwiniarski

> // this a comment for the person who will review this doc, I don't know if i can put images or not. if I can please tell me to add some images for this file.

Reviewer 2: @EngOmarAhmedIOS I left a comment to help you out.

  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
  - 'SwiftUI ViewModifiers'
  - 'SwiftUI'
  - 'iOS'
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first
  - 'learn-iOS-course'
  - 'path/iOS-path'
---

Views can respond to taps, drags, pinches and other gestures just by adding **Gesture** modifiers to your View.

## Tap Gestures

This is the most basic type of Gesture.
The `.onTapGesture()` modifier can be called on the view desired to track the gesture on.

```Swift
Text("Hello, World!") // SwiftUI Text view.
            .onTapGesture { // Using this modifier, a specific action can be run when the View is tapped.

                print("View Tapped") // This function will print "View Tapped" in the console.

            }

```

This example will output the following when the view is tapped:

> ![Screen_Recording_2023-05-20_at_4_05_58_PM_AdobeExpress](https://github.com/EngOmarAhmedIOS/docs/media/Screen_Recording_2023-05-20_at_4_05_58_PM_AdobeExpress.gif)

Reviewer 2: @EngOmarAhmedIOS two things about this link. First, rename the image something more meaningful like `swiftui-gestures-example.gif`. Second, the URL you need to use is `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/` followed by the image name. That path won't render until this is merged, but we want it pointing to the main Docs media folder.

Author: I did as you told me, I hope I did it right this time 😅 @SSwiniarski
